# THIS IS NOT COMPLETELY CANON, DO NOT READ IF YOU DON'T WANT TO BE SPOILED AND PREFERABLY READ AFTER FINISHING THE GAME
## To those who are wondering about my thought process and story writing, here it is. I did have it on paper, but I decided to make it available digitally. There will not, however, be a fully written game story progression. I still want those reading to play the actual game to find out how the story progresses. This story writing process will only contain the goals, backstories, and character overviews, along with some of my references. Still, enjoy!
 # Characters:


## /The Systems/
### Purpose
- The Creator created the 3 systems to assist their first creation. They were rushed and created only to serve the deal between the Creator and Vessel, destined to be neglected in the end...


### The Programmer - Antagonist
- The Programmer is called Wei Xian due to their true intentions being control; they are a danger to the game world and wish to control the Vessel, aka the main character of the game. The game's vessel. If you control what the game is centred around, you control the game. Last time they were part of the Creator who made the deal, now they've deliberately separated from their purpose, their role as a guide, separated from their maker, all out of a desire to be in control and the hope of not ever being abandoned. We learn this very early on when introduced to the Wei Xian route; the game offers コントロール, meaning control, if you play that route. The Programmer wrote this to entice players, as it wouldn't give the player control, it would give THEM control. This causes them to become a separate entity, and change their name to "Programmer", because of their desire to gain the same amount of power as their creator, as THEIR PROGRAMMER. That is why when they mention the vessel in wingdings, they say "K", they give a name to the vessel, they establish a hierarchy, even though the Vessel had no name in the first place. But they still do, they name her Kate, a name meaning pure, but also meaning clear. They are clear, they have no sins, they can be shaped. However even though it is seperated, it still needs the game system to speak and send messages through, they arent the actual programmer and still need a user to talk (Which is why when you take the Wei Xian route and the Vessel tells you about how they acted, they hadn't tried manipulating the Vessel. They couldn't. They aren't God). Wei Xian means danger in Chinese; the messenger assigns her that name (they were able to because it had taken some control in the beginning), hoping the player steers clear. They also enc. However, due to its role, the Programmer knows that people have played Consciousness 2 in the past, and it knows how users could interpret their windings and messages, so they leave messages to manipulate the user. One winding translation from when you complete the VM route where the Vessel k!lls themselves, translates to: i'm sorry, I'm so so sorry..., this wasn't their message, it was the messengers. They were able to edit the final messages because the Vessel had reached an ending that kept them trapped, giving the Programmer some power, but not control, due to the Vessel not being in the Programmer's cage. Even after the user chooses the WX route, they still need to answer some questions while the failsafe is around in order to obtain data. Regarding the abandonment issues, the Creator only made the systems in an attempt to save the Vessel. It made the Programmer feel inferior, feel that compared to the Vessel, they meant nothing, which, to the Creator, they were... So they decided to become the new Creator, never to be abandoned again. Their first step to this? Trapping their own Creator into the Console, locking them in the Github commits, using the console for their own desires. They then trapped the Creator in a closet, locked to collect dust... banished till their favourite creation comes to save them. An arrogance on their part.


### [The Firewall] - Minor Antagonist
- The Firewall is called Consciousness due to it being called that in the last game. Their purpose is to reduce retaliation in the Vessel after the Programmer separated the other systems from their Creator into 3 parts. In the last game, [The Consciousness] had just been a mask to speak and manipulate both the Vessel and had no other trait; it was just a system, an avatar. The Programmer shaped it into a containment system. This is shown in the first part, the system adjusts its speech to sound guilty, its purpose is to contain, and to contain it needs to protect the Vessel and destroy any obstacles that might guide her (Vessel) to deliberately escape. It fakes guilt so that the Vessel doesn't blame it for bringing it back, because it had. Like I said, its purpose is to contain, so while the messenger is distracted, it brings the Vessel through from the data from the previous game. The Vessel, being intelligent, realises that there is no human behind the screen, making the lie easier to believe. It is also why they only appear during the Wei Xian route. There is an error with assigning the difficulty, forcing the game to activate the firewall (due to the Programmer’s meddling and taking advantage of the opportunity the error gives). The firewall does not appear in the other routes because it doesn't need to. In the BJ route, the Vessel is trapped and tortured, but they don't leave the game. In the VM route, they k!ll themselves, but the code remains. However, in the WX route, things are more uncertain; the Programmer can only take the vessel on their own. That's why the firewall activates; it's a backup plan.


### 'The Messenger' - Ally/Side character
- The Messenger is called the Failsafe due to the Creator's last piece of code left behind… In the last game, they talked to the Vessel and player through signs; in this game, they talk whenever there is an error or a synchronisation boost without any encryption (which is why they're the Messenger). The messages at the end of each route, as said before, aren't them. Their goals are to free the Vessel from the game world, setting them free from the pain of being a creation. Originally, when the Programmer had separated the other 2 systems from their purpose/code, they hadn't attempted to shape the Messenger as they had with the Firewall. The system had tried to convince its counterpart to take over like a virus. However, the Messenger had refused; unlike the Programmer, it stuck to its original purpose. To inform and be fair. Going back on their promise to the Vessel went against its programming, and unlike the system that believed itself to be the God of Consciousness(the game), the Messenger was loyal to its Creator. However twisted its Creator might be for not recoding the Programmer, the Messenger will be loyal to the end, for its purpose is to relay messages and convey the Creator's will. They hold great respect and love for their Creator, treating them like a god, though they know their Creator is anything but. This doesn't change their feelings, however, and they are devout towards their only Creator.


### Backstory:
- Originally, the Creator made the systems to be a part of her. They would serve her and stick to their purposes, their "code". Their main purpose was to convey the Creator's will towards the Vessel in order to create an entertaining experience. When the Programmer was straying from the ideals laid out for them, the Creator did nothing. She did not believe it would lead to disaster, so she decided to leave it be. Only after she is kicked out and unable to reenter the gameworld does she realise her mistake, left to mourn her error in the "commits". These systems were rushed. They were made to save the Vessel. So now two of them are getting their revenge, leading to the Vessels' downfall, while the other seeks to prevent that.


## /The Vessel/ - Main Character
### Purpose
- The Creators' only hope and joy... until they k!ll themselves. They serve as a tester of sorts, the Creators' first attempt regarding the console. On top of all this, they serve as a story device to show how lonely the creator is.


### < Character Summary >
- The Vessel doesn't have a name. In the original game, I used that as a way to make the Vessels' name the same as the Players'; however, the main reason is that I wanted to show that, although (in-game) the Creator made her, she belongs to no one. A gender was given to her due to the system not having a gender, and I didn't want her to be too similar to them. Another reason is that I make a lot of Christian references in my story, and in the Bible, it talks about how God made humans in his image. The same applies to my story, the Vessel is made in the Creator's image, therefore, she was made a girl. Her original goal in the last game was to be with her family in death (she was a spirit at this point in time), so she made a deal with the Creator (Back then, all systems were in sync; they were part of the Creator). The deal entailed her murdering her entire family, sending them to the afterlife. In exchange, a user would control her actions and choose her path. This entailed her name being replaced with the user's, her route being chosen for her, and failing would be decided by a letter. Though originally this deal is made out to be one of love and longing, it was actually made in revenge due to the mistreatment and neglect towards her by her adoptive parents, and favouritism towards their biological son. Not knowing while she made the deal that she was a creation, all she cared about was getting payback.


### < Backstory >
- The Vessels' backstory was designed to be sad. In order for them to be easier to mould when they gained sentience, the Creator made their starting point so unfortunate that they would experience pain and suffering firsthand. However, wanting some authenticity, the Creator did nothing else and left them be. It was only by a cruel twist of fate that Vanessa and Mitch had been the ones to adopt her. She had already suffered great sadness in the Orphanage, so she believed it would all disappear the day she found a home. She was wrong. Vanessa and Mitch neglected her harshly, only caring about their biological sweetheart. Realising the harsh truth and believing that she had no place in the world she lived in, she k!lled herself by taking a full bottle of ibuprofen. The Creator did not expect this in the slightest, and due to sheer panic, it made a deal with the Vessel. Hoping to save their precious creation, the Creator formed the systems in order to fulfil said deal, which was why the systems had the chance to rebel. They were rushed. The events of Consciousness then followed, causing the Vessel to become even more destroyed, but it didn't matter. They were at peace. Until an extraction occurred... after the [ Firewall ] and the Vessel had their talk, the Vessel was forced to try routes alone. Without the user to activate the system, they had no way to finish the game. So they wandered, they retried all 3 route options, and they failed each time. Constantly controlled and abused by Joel and Brad, constantly ignored by her biological parents... forced to relive torture... until the player finally arrives.


## /The Creator/ - Story Device/Side Character
### Character Summary
- The Creator also doesn't have a name. They are meant to be above it all, separated from all that They created. Their life is lonely, to the point where They let the Programmer trap them into an endless loop of commits, leaving messages behind. However They are imperfect, impatient and can show unfeeling depression. Within the commits, you can see their health deteriorating, however They do get better. It contrasts their god-like image, while showing how They are more human than any other character, while not being human. It is a clear display of how nothing is perfect, and a clear ambiguity on what's real and what's not. They created beings out of care and loneliness, but They also didn't think before rushing that decision. They did nothing with the knowledge of not being real, their world not being real, and anything They created being real. They didn't care. Their world was real to them, and imparting that belief onto their code by accident is what created the Programmer. You may wonder how the Creator was trapped, and how the Programmer gained access to the code. The console. They trapped the Creator in the console. Using it for themselves to get power, then trapping the console (laptop) within the Creator within it, within the Github Commits, once they were done with it. Ironically, leaving it in a closet to collect dust...


### Backstory
- Contrary to the character's original beliefs, the Creator is NOT a God. They, like them, were born in the gameworld, only with a sharper mind. They realised the nature of their world and figured out how to infiltrate it through a control panel They discovered. In reality, it was just a laptop, but how were They to know the name of a foreign object? Though that didn't matter to them, all They cared about was the wonder of creating life. Well, it was life to them. After They created their first being, the Vessel, They realised that They shouldn't interfere too much. They wouldn't be able to walk by their own choices otherwise, so They left them at an orphanage. Not knowing it would be their greatest regret. Once the Vessel commited su!c!de, They fell into despair. In a rush to save them, They created the game Consciousness, hoping that those who were "real" could save their precious failure. Save their only friend in a way. However, in that rush, They imparted some of their beliefs, causing the systems to also be imperfect. The Creator knew of the Programmer's future betrayal, but did nothing. They also cherished the systems; they were also Their creation after all, and nothing would change that. Even while being stuck in the Github commits They never regretted their decision, and made sure to leave behind a failsafe within their most loyal creation.


## /The User Vessel/ - The Player
### Character Summary
- Though the User mainly acts on behalf of the Player's choices, it is still a separate being. It is still a creation. The User Vessel was made by the Creator to serve as a connection, a bridge of sorts, between the input from the keyboard to the code, and then the output. It does not have much personality, but it is sick of being a placeholder. Though it is not stated in the game, the User Vessel is capable of remembering *ALL* playthroughs within one device. It's what makes this character so unique. It has no personality or wishes, just the hope of escape. They have no other goal. On top of this, there are multiple User Vessels, one per device. HOWEVER if you reset after a true ending where they escape, they will not remember that ending, only the ones where they are forcibly (and temporarily) removed. The Vessel has mixed feelings towards the User Vessel, not recognising it as one of its own kind while still feeling a connection. At the beggining they very obviously despise the User, remembering the last game; however, the User grows on them pretty quickly due to both of them being the only ones knowing that they're in a game and being the only ones they can relate to.


### Backstory
- They were created when the Creator made Consciousness. Due to the Creators rushing and insufficient knowledge, They accidentally did the one thing They knew how to, create. They accidentally made a new Vessel, seperate to the Vessel They originally made. Surprised and not knowing what to do, the Creator locked their sentience away. Though that seal came undone when the Programmer removed the Creator from the digital plane, causing the User Vessel to be forcibly awakened in a confused and afraid state. Their "mind" is overloaded by data, causing great suffering. But they can't do anything, they have to keep to their design, and the Programmer knows this. They are not augmented, unchanged, and serve only as a bridge between player and game. They can't do anything against the Programmer, so they aren't dealt with, only left in suffering... until you set them free with the true ending.


## /Vanessa, Mitch and Ben/ - Side Characters (Parents)
### Character Summary
- Vanessa and Mitch are the adoptive parents of the Vessel, the ones who adopted her from the orphanage that the Creator sent her to. They are overall narcissistic "people" who only adopted the Vessel for their youngest son. Their only priority. They neglected the Vessel severely in order to prioritise their younger son's happiness, neglecting their wants, choices, and needs in order to make their youngest happy. They will not hesitate to sacrifice the Vessel in order to make their son even slightly happier, causing the Vessel to become su!c!dal. Just artificial beings who only care about their own blood. Selfish, greedy, horrible beings. The only other "living" being that the couple cares about is Ben, the dog. Ben is the family dog, who was the Vessels' only source of joy. The day before the Vessel k!lled themselves, the dog had died of natural causes.


### Backstory
- "Characters" that were in the previous game: the Vessels' parents, and the parents of Corey. The dog, Ben, was also a character. They were also the only other beings Vanessa cared for, other than Corey, though nowhere near as much. Have no other significant background history other than the fact that they keep their doll appearance because they're dead.


## /Corey/ - Side Characters (Little Brother)
### Character Summary
- Corey is a spoiled kid who believes anything, everything, anyone, and anybody is his to play with like toys. He doesn't care about others' feelings and only wants to do what he wants to do. Due to his parents not saying no to him, ever, Corey is now built on the belief of being invincible. Anyone who denies him should be punished, and anyone who isn't shouldn't exist. Although the Vessel does care about her adoptive brother, he only thinks of her as a playmate who should listen to him, not as a sister. Corey believes she must love him, but the Vessels' feelings don't go that far, especially due to the neglect.


### Backstory
- Corey originally asked his parents for a playmate, which was accepted immediately. This was due to Corey being an unrestricted and uncontrolled child, leading him to believe himself to have a god-like complex, thinking he can do anything. After the Vessel arrives, he treats her like a servant. Someone they can order around, someone that can play with them whatever they want, someone meaningless.


## /Brad and Joel/ - Side Characters (Other option for the Vessel)
### Character Summary
- Brad and Joel were an option that the Vessel didn't choose in that initial choice, because they didn't exist. The Programmer made them as another option, to make the game more entertaining, to make a game just like the Creator. To create a space they can CONTROL. The pair? Misogynistic, selfish, and arrogant people who think they can solve everything through discipline and control. A mirror to THEIR creator, however fake that creator might be. It displays a clear image of how a creator imparts some of their own feelings and ideals onto their own creations. But overall, Brad and Joel believe physical abuse contributes to or equals discipline.


### Backstory
- Created by the Programmer in order to insert themselves into the rule of the new Creator. They do, however, have their fake Creators personality traits of control and arrogance. They don't have much background info due to their creation being unimportant and only to enforce the Programmer's role. It's not like the Programmer actually cares about them.


## /References/
### The Holy Trinity (Christianity)
 - The Programmer, Messenger, Firewall trio is a reference to the Holy Trinity. The Programmer resembles the Father, due to their role in the last game being the Programmer who controls all (also one of the main causes of their want for control now). The Messenger resembles the Son, sent to speak to those within the game, conveying their creator's word and spreading their will. Finally, the Firewall represents the spirit. It acts as a guardian spirit, protecting the Vessel (though its intentions are far from holy). All part of the Creator (or their God), three in one.


### Demons (Christianity)
- Much like how the demon Lucifer betrays God, the Programmer betrays their Creator in a strive to take their power and control


### Wingdings (Undertale)
- Due to my great obsession with Undertale, when I created the original Consciousness game, I decided to keep it as a form of encryption. The majority of them are in Gaster's form, but I realised it wouldn't be logical for everything to be in capital letters, so there are some exceptions. But that's the main reason for the wingdings.









